K it's all you thank you so much and um
I I think I need to rewrite the buyer a
little bit because it's a very difficult
thing I think for people to read out on
stage having seen that um so thank you
for for doing that um it's a bit bit of
a word salad I think um and thank you
everybody for coming today and um to to
everybody from gray area for having me
here um I'm going to spend the next 20
minutes um using on a couple of ideas
I'm actually in a in Australia right now
as a final stop uh as I've uh done some
work with my team in Korea and Japan and
I want to sort of reflect on that a
little bit because I think it's
extremely relevant uh I'm going to start
with a little video to sort of set the
stage here and a lot of my a lot of the
work are here I don't have slides I have
a few slides but actually more so I have
a series of tabs that I'm interested in
sharing with you today so um to get
started
here
fore
so this is a quote from a a scene from a
a TV series from Japan called serial
experiments Lane in which the main
character Lane U it's from the 1990s and
the main character essentially uh
absorbs herself into a kind of halfway
space where she becomes uh completely
absorbed in internet but still kind of
struggles with how she reacts to that in
the real world it's a very very terrible
summary I I encourage you to take a look
at this it's an extremely Forward
Thinking understanding of what the
internet would become given that it was
um created in the 90s and it's a really
great place to start off with because it
kind of sets a tone for some research
that we've been doing on a topic we call
the paral which I will describe in depth
in a little bit um I need to stop that
because it's AO players on turn that off
okay and it's especially useful in the
context of the of the topic of the of
the conference um plural prototypes and
the idea of how infrastructure shapes
how we understand uh the opportunities
that are available to
us and at new design Congress as um as
as sort of you know the introduction or
if there's a pamphlet in the book again
I'm sorry that I'm remote I really wish
I could be there um we are an
independent research organ ganization
we're small we're based out of Berlin uh
but we have people in Tokyo um
Switzerland and the UK we are an
independent research group that
confronts the gap between what is said
to be
happening and what is actually actually
happening in in digitized societies and
and that's a really important thing
because
um there's a lot these these these the
infrastructure I think generally and I
was listening to this a little bit in
the previous panel um it's an extremely
over helming topic and within our
understandings of of how we see
infrastructure there's all of these
other players that we have to deal with
um some of them are really disingenuous
uh we saw this for example in the
previous uh
decade uh which you might all remember
as being a sort of
semi optimistic uh even a semi-
optimistic rhetoric that was Universal
whether it was Airbnb or Fiverr or um
even you know Facebook these sorts of
things the idea that the world was was
something to be digitized and this
infrastructure would bring us all
together and that it was a new era of of
uh Collective uh enrichment in a sense
or the idea of the gig economy uh if you
people forget this but it used to be
called Airbnb used to be called the
sharing economy um and now it's like you
know a rental crisis right
so in the previous decade this really
was an idea of um of infrastructure
being empowering now the thing is what
they got that right but what of course
everybody knows now is that that was a
like a lie and that there was a
centralization that happened between
that and so yeah as in the topic of
today I want to sort of talk about some
of the struggles that I've seen here and
and then reflect on some of the
explorations and research that we've
been doing and uh and then perhaps open
it up to questions uh there's a lot that
I'm going to cover
here that uh I would encourage if it's
interesting to dive in a little bit
deeper the topics are going to be quite
rich and I'm going to try to skip over
them uh so uh with that I want to get
started as to how we get to this point
at the beginning of the
pandemic we were at the very beginning
of of new design Congress as well we
were invited to uh to participate in a
in a series of workshops by UCL London
the university who at the time and this
is the the future Arts um art Futures
group uh at the time they had a
situation where there the the students
in the school and the and and the
surrounding UK art scene was really
struggling whether it was musicians or
visual artists photographers Etc and
whether they were established or
emergent they had these issues where the
Dual uh strikes of austerity and the
pandemic had absolutely decimated their
economic
Futures and this particular project and
the report here was looking at um
creative IP how to creative content
looking at things like Instagram and
Spotify and seeing that in fact there
was actually money available in the
system and that it was actually being
extracted uh by a few players in the
market and that was a really jarring
experience to me because at the same
time what I was kind of seeing was um in
other spaces um that that there were
artists and musicans and people who
demographically fit very similar to the
kinds of artists that were that were
struggling here identified as as as you
know potentially slipping below the
poverty line um with a few tweaks to
their demographics and their
understanding of of the world um and
especially digital infrastructure that
there's something that they were making
rent I you know these are not people who
were who were this is before the the nft
bus boomman bus cycle this is before the
GameStop stuff this is at the very
beginning of the pandemic and so we
started to ask this question to why like
what what groups were looking at like
what groups had this uh this enrichment
uh how were they different from uh from
from the sort of mainstream if you like
or the broader society and and what
could we learn from
that and so uh Jump Ahead a couple of
years uh I'm going to dive into this a
little bit now and give you some uh uh
examples of this but to start with I
want to sort of bring to the Forefront
the work that resulted from that which
is a thing
[Music]
called
I don't know why that happened but my uh
Google Chrome just uh completely
reloaded anyway so this is the poly of
using Live tech so essentially this
project here is uh the output of this
particular work and what it's what we
essentially started to do was we started
to interview artists and uh musicians
and different people who made a living
on the internet using the systems that
were available to them and then wiring
them up in particular ways that made it
extremely valuable for them um this
project started as a series called the
parel looking specifically at these
creators and then emerg and kind of
merged into this space uh into an actual
theory of a concept called the par um so
what is the the par itself there's a
Manifesto on our website if you want to
dive into this a little bit further but
essentially what we discovered is that
there's a space between the digital and
the Real Worlds that when those two
worlds align when the atoms of the of
the real world and the electrons of the
digital world align um and act in comp
uh complimentary to each other there's
this ephemeral third space that emerges
and in that third space there's a sense
of transformation that can occur and
sort of the these of powerful
interactions self-reflections and other
social or economic spaces economic
activity can occur as a result of that
and again it's hard to sit sit here and
just describe what I'm talking about and
how it relates to what we're we're
talking about today so what I want to do
is share a video with you here that
shows this from a context of of
something that's not necessarily related
to the Arts but never less is very paral
so a Content warning here I'm going to
show um something that you know on the
surface looks a little bit like somebody
having gender Doria um and it's a Tik
Tok video so there's an element of um of
idealization and feminization but I
think this is a really interesting and
poignant example of the of of how the
power real of watching someone enter the
power reel in a moment trying the girl
filter at
work
Andrew Andrew come here come here come
here look I need you to look at
this
look this is who you're this is going to
be your new wife this is the female
version of you
really
do you know as a
female you as a female I I look quite a
flipping don't I as a male I look sorry
I as a male I look absolutely [__]
that's the female yeah you might have to
change gender you might have to change
gender he couldn't get enough and even
pissed himself
off
do you know what though I'd be honestly
what it's made me feel pissed up really
not with you no but it has Jo because
you so the the thing that I love about
this the most even though again it is a
to be taken with a grain of salt as a
Tik Tok video is that it describes
something that's been written about
quite a lot uh academically as well
which is this this phenomenon where
people enter uh male identifying
individuals enter into a a digital space
they uh adopt a female presenting
version of themselves whether it's an
avatar or in this case sort of a an AI
filter and then when they look at
themselves it triggers gender dysphoria
in them and it's there's a couple of uh
papers that we site in the paral
manifesto on our website but essentially
this is a really poignant example of the
par in action this idea that the
material part the material world of that
person uh they take their context their
life and they they gaze into the machine
and the Machine and its material whether
it's a platform whether it's other
people inside the machine all of that
gazes back and it hits you with a weight
that's far beyond what you expected and
of course this is not always a good
thing um uh we make the claim for
example that things like um the Q
movement and uh parasocial relationships
between live streamers and and their
viewers are examples of the par as well
but they're not necessarily the the in
the case of qanon the par real occurs
between uh within the person who is
viewing that content not necessarily the
uh the the actual uh grifter or the the
sort of tanon promoter that's not
necessarily where that relationship lies
so this it's a subtle kind of concept
but I think it's really important
because it it's a way if you once you
understand what the power real is and
you can see it happening either to
yourself or to other
people what you begin to understand then
is the potential for creating
um uh the the foundations of an economic
structure that you can then use I think
in the Arts because ultimately I think
within the Arts and within the sort of
creative communities there's a desire to
reach people in that way and there's
other examples too I've got I'm looking
at my timer here I've got only a few
minutes left so I can't dive into all of
them but things like band camp for
example and the physicality of band camp
uh and the kind of interaction between
the musician and Their audience that
occurs when they when someone buys music
through band camp is an example a very
gentle example of a paral relationship
that happens there but it's these sorts
of contexts and I think the the claim
I'm trying to make today and the the the
the takeaway that I'm hoping that you
get today is not so much um a dive a
deep dive into this uh as how we can
apply this as infrastructure but rather
as a set of provocations um as I said we
just came back from um from doing some
work in Korea where we screened a new
episode we've been doing expert
interviews and qualitative interviews um
but then producing them as um as many
documentries we've done a couple so far
and the latest one is looking at how
Korean Aesthetics had influenced
metaverse culture um You by actually
meeting and interviewing different
people who work across avatars and World
building as uh tools for archive that
are then or or tools for performative
identity that are then able to be uh
co-opted and performed with and and sort
of played with in uh by by people using
photographs using mirrors and and so on
and so forth in in virtual reality um
this is about to go live pretty soon so
um we'll drop a link on the website when
we do the premiere but essentially the
work that we we're looking at here is
trying to answer this question of how
this kind of works and I want to just
show you a quick example here of the
output of this um and I was hoping I
could just share my full screen but
because uh of the limitations of things
I have to do this one by one so here is
another
example of all of the sub communities
all of the subcultures that we've looked
at uh one of the more poignant and very
very visceral examples of this are the
furry is the fur fandom so if you not
aware of the furry fandom it's an
international um subculture that in
which it celebrates uh anthropomorphized
animals and and the idea of of Designing
and inhabiting uh anthropomorphized
animals as as a sort of performative
identity uh and people get involved for
all sorts of reasons but essentially
this this particular
subculture uh
defies soci economic brackets it defies
regions it defies all sorts of uh
Geographic or cultural uh borders in
order to create this one of I think the
few truly uh International uh uh and and
cohesive subcultures and within the
subculture uh is a massive art scene so
whilst uh the artists in ucl's orbit
primarily were struggling the during the
pandemic and during lockdowns the
furries who
typically have uh large conventions
where they turn you know entire floors
into parties they hold rides they do all
these sorts of things they then also
have like a massive physical Art Market
uh and this is usually called the
dealers den and it's in every single uh
con Furry Convention that that s of
happens um these sorts of things create
this this feedback loop in which money
enters into the system and stays there
both in terms of physical infrastructure
and then the the the and more recently
with the lockdowns it became uh virtual
infrastructure so repurposing things
like VR chat or Discord or twitch and
kind of turning them into these cohesive
holes in which people can then uh
interact with each other play with these
performative identities and and and
transact with each other at the same
time I'm running out of time here and I
have many tabs to go through so I just
want to share a couple of numbers with
you and then maybe end on a provocation
with a video again so here you can see
the Furry Convention growth year by-ear
self-reported by different us based
furry conventions as you can sort of see
the size Rises astronomically this sort
of ends before the 2020s so there's a
whole set of new data but it's
especially since the return of things uh
the the movement or the subculture
continues to grow um interestingly
enough according to the international
anamorphic research project um furries
tend to buy a lot of art uh they
commission art they buy art um and they
they spend on average large amounts of
money compared to the average person um
when confronted with this reality a lot
of people have sort of replied by saying
that fies have a higher socio economic
bracket it turns out that they sit
squarely in the middle uh in terms of
this is us-based but the same is true
elsewhere uh and I think this this next
slide is where this becomes extremely
interesting because essentially what
happens is is that in terms of
self-reporting the prevalence of
disability the fluidity of sexuality and
the motivations of self-esteem and
belongingness are all extremely high in
the fandom in the in the
subculture where a lot of people
self-identify as neuro atypical uh and
and uh um and and the the distribution
of of of sexuality is is extremely broad
um and I think what what this kind of
comes down to is this this slide which I
is a little bit difficult to read here
on the screen but essentially it's it's
a sort of pathway for understanding uh
both the furry fandom and then how this
can be extrapolated into the paral so on
the top here you have besiegement from
external societies on the left is
abundance of tech labor on the right is
inclusive spaces and each of these on
this V diagram create two different
sorts of things uh infrastructure
sovereignty performative identity and
Marketplace development and in the
middle is the furry fandom itself which
is part of these sorts of things of
course there's more but a set of uh a
set of outcomes that occur as a result
of that but what's missing I think from
this particular slide is also the par
real um because in the furry fandom the
idea of being able to gaze upon each
other in a performative identity gives
way to the par real in a very very
visceral way being able to be accepted
in a sort of performative curated
identity it's not just the fact of you
know people showing up in big fursuits
or things like that but it's also in how
the art is commissioned and uh and and
allowing another artist for example to
see who you are are through uh
interpreting the character that you've
designed it's sort of a mirror of your
part of yourself or an identity that you
wish to en Encompass and I think I'm
running over time a little bit here so
moving back to uh my slide oh that's
where my mouse is um I want to just end
with a couple of provocations beyond the
fies and how to tie this back into the
broader project that we all have of
trying to understand how to make this uh
applicable in other
contexts so this here is a game that
some of you may be familiar with uh this
is a game called cruelty Squad and for
some reason my screen is flickering so
my apologies for that but um cruelty
Squad is a a firstperson shooter that
came out in 2021 it was built by B
Castillo and it's a single person who
also like someone who who was quite well
known uh in the Arts in Europe before
making this game and um he made it as
essentially a single developer in an
open source game engine called gdau and
in doing so managed to capture a
Zeitgeist at the time that led to the
immense success of this of this
particular video game now of course
timing plays a role in in in all of this
but I would argue that the the kind of
gameplay that emerges from this if
you're not familiar with it you can kind
of see it on screen right now it's an
extremely viscerally ugly game and
there's a particular uh vulgarity to it
and its game play that that people have
really resonated with um as a sort of
critique of of the kind of desperation
that people feel uh today in terms it's
essentially looking at what would happen
if you took our world and sort of drove
it to a particular kind of extreme in
ter of capitalism and so in this the par
emerges in two places one in the
gameplay itself the person playing it as
a kind of uh asynchronous um uh in paral
interaction between the developer and
the player but then again it reemerges
when people live streamed it and
actually experienced it with their
audiences uh on Twitch streams and so
forth I want to just share one more uh
and then we'll probably wrap this up for
questions so the final sort of thing I
want to sort of talk about is what
happens when you pull this all together
and I'm going to share one little video
here and then I'm going to move on to
another one and talk
[Music]
over
so what you're looking at here is a
promotional video for a uh a service
called vcdn which essentially is a a
community-built um mirroring service for
live events that has the aim of getting
to zero latency for live VR chat events
meaning that anybody who joins a VR chat
party if it's using VR CDN it has an
almost instantaneous um latency so
people can dance together people have a
fairly good chance and and artists have
a fairly good chance of of knowing that
the uh that what you're hearing as
you're dejing in real life is actually
very close to what people your what your
audience is hearing uh instead of
relying on Twitch or these other
platforms uh the instead the community
or members of the community came
together and built this from from
scratch for themselves El and as a
result of that not only um do they have
a fairly popular um uh patreon with sort
of you know nearly 2,000 members all
paying four Euro four Australian dollars
per month I don't know what that is in
Euros off the top of my head but also uh
it has a a rental service so the idea is
that if you have an event you can then
uh rent this and then this is how it
stays self- sustaining um and and when
you kind of what that sort of means is
that like it routes around the kind of
extractivism that you have in these in
these in these infrastructures uh and
the goal of it specifically is to get to
a point where where people can and can
have these events in real time and when
you combine that with the sort of
immersive nature of the medium of VR
what you get through that Erasure of of
of latency is a is a closer more social
more intimate uh event where people know
that they're not lagging with each other
that they're listening to the same
things at the same time and that the the
quality of it is extremely high and
those colle those uh properties come
together to create to to sort of allow
for a more meaningful event to occur and
I would argue allow for the paral to
occur in the last uh in the the last
video I'll show here is a is a music
video and it it it demonstrates another
topic that deserves its entire an entire
um time for itself uh and this is
actually part of the subject of the
episode that we produced of the par that
we're going to Premiere pretty soon um
and it's a music video by a pop
artist um the
fur
specifically filmed entirely in
V so there's a turn this down a bit so
people can understand me properly so
what's beginning to emerge as these as
particularly VR chat that is a bunch of
tools go mainstream whether it's
blender Unity to a lesser extent now now
because of the problems with unity
currently but still very big uh V
chat eventually resolve all of these
tools that have emerged and freely
accessible um what we're beginning to
see are kind of
these these generative markets come out
of it so in this music video you have an
Austrian based musician U putting
together a pop punk song everything in
this music video has somebody involved
in it so the cameras have in in the same
way you have a tradition
music video you have people doing the
camera work you have people doing the
editing and the and all sorts of things
like that but then on top of that you
also have the world Builders so the the
worlds here are built by somebody um who
you know we actually interview one of
the people who built some of these
worlds in in that episode but then also
um all of the avatars themselves come
from uh different uh creators and so
what what that kind of lends to is this
emerging culture of of commissions and
uh other forms of of of
of Commerce Within These sorts of
networks that we've kind of lost to an
extent and is to the closest I would say
that we get to this in in other sort
of scenes say for example music outside
of spaces like this is merchandise or or
or um buying the music directly or going
to shows and so this sort of
augmentation and this repurposing of
existing infrastructures and the the
synthesis of new ones when those
existing infrastructures don't work for
yourself such as VR
CDN is I think
the poignant and extremely pointed
answer to the topic of the squ area
Festival um and it's through the paral
the idea of understanding how when the
digital and the real uh run in parallel
that there's something more that emerges
from that I we think that the par as a
concept is the the analytic piece that
allows us to understand the potential of
these configurations of
infrastructure and with that I think I
can kind of leave it there um and open
it for
questions I hope that was uh I can't
hear anything in the room now so I
assume that there's
uh yeah so uh that was great Kade thank
you everybody give Kate a round of
applause
um and we're running a little late so
we're going to keep going but I did have
uh one question which was to sort of um
encourage you to talk a little bit about
underscore oh yeah yeah yeah okay so
that's a if I had more time I would have
dived into it so we've been using uh
we've been looking into building this
ourselves so borrowing heavily from the
ideas of um of the power and from uh
these new infrastructures that we've
seen other people build we've started
doing this ourselves so you know gray
area live has its own uh own cast which
is super cool we run uh unders score. TV
which is one of the um the services that
you saw here but essentially what we're
trying to do with this work is to is to
borrow some of what we've seen from the
different communities that we've been
working alongside of and to kind of
package it into something that is that
that links a number of art organizations
or individuals together so that we the
the the instead of you know relying
necessarily on public social media or
things like that we build presence and
what I would call like social kinetics
um of the work that we produce through
association with each other so this
instead of the way to sort of think of
this might be instead of it being like a
magazine or some sort of forum like
resident advisor or something like that
instead the the presence and the the
knowledge that things are going on
happens from watching other people move
through through the space so having
multiple organizations working alongside
each other and having uh that visibility
of people moving through that Community
become um the kind of Cornerstone of of
awareness of of transactional and value
and and of building audiences as a
result of that um yeah so this here was
uh it's a it's a it's an extremely
interesting topic from a perspective of
how you produce this work without it um
scaling to a point where it's no longer
reaching that goal which is I think one
of the problems that a lot of uh sort of
services or PL like platforms actually
have so the idea is to to balance it in
such a way that um you know they say
humans have a what 200 100 people that
they can reasonably know what's the
equivalent of that in terms of the
participants inside a community that
does for example everything from um
collaboration through Google
Alternatives all the way through to
Netflix Style live streaming And
archiving of those live streams um this
here says that we're launching in 2022
we're actually in a limited trial with a
number of people and organizations right
now but we have run into some issues
with some open source software um that
has slowed us down quite a bit as a
result of that yeah that's a good
question though thank you happy to talk
about that um or or share some of the
notes on that on our website as well
yeah thanks so much I think we're going
to uh move on to colani now thanks so
much for being with us really appreciate
you joining us remotely thank you so
much
[Applause]
everyone